## Welcome to my eportfolio 
There are several items from my coursework that have helped showcase my strengths and shaped my professional goals in the computer science field. Throughout many of my courses I have learned the importance of best coding practices as well as security. When dealing with items such as databases security is a must have as it is needed to protect users data. When dealing with information and data it is of the upmost importance to protect that data. In a database such as the one I created using mongoDB, it was important to add error messages to the program so that a user can’t access data that shouldn’t be accessed. Making sure the program logic functions correctly and even indentations as in the artifacts I displayed show my understanding of the coding best practices throughout the languages and updated programs. Completing my coursework throughout this programmed has allowed me to learn new skills related to computer science as well as expanding my current knowledge.  Skills such as working as a team while learning agile and waterfall software development lifecycles have proved vital in creating programs and understanding how projects are created from start to finish. Other aspect of the program such as creating a project proposal have proven my abilities to communicate to stakeholders and completing requests for information as with a weather station I created in emerging systems and architecture class. This experience helped on my ability to create realistic and secure software/hardware specifications for a project and how to achieve those specifications. Not only was able to build these enhancements, I was able to plan out the steps of how I would achieve these enhancements throughout my computer science education. The artifacts I have chosen to display in my portfolio fit together as they display the knowledge and skills I have learned throughout my computer science degree. These particular projects display the knowledge in different areas but many of them show the aspects of several areas of computer science in each artifact.

### Article information
The first artifact I included is a OpenGL project written in C++. It is a project that shows a chair with several parts and functions. This chair is displayed in Three Dimensional graphics on the two dimensional screen. This artifact shows software designing and engineering and how the structure of the code can create an object. This particular design required planning as the coordinates system had to be aligned correctly in order to display the object in the correct dimensions as showed in the artifact.	

The second artifact is a medical application system written in the java programming language and uses J-unit tests to test the certain parts of the application. This allow for testing of the different classes and shows they are running correctly. This medical application shows how data structures and algorithms can be crucial in creating secure code while following best coding practices. This application has several features as displayed in the artifact description. As there are several different parts to the application that rely on one another, it is important to make sure that the programming logic functions correctly as shown in the application.	

The third artifact resolves around a database and more specifically mongoDB with non SQL database functionality. This artifact is used for querying information from different parts of a database. The database queries must also be secure as it deals with company and user information. This artifact employs CRUD functionality to access information. These coding best practices as shown in the artifact allow the code to have full functionality while being secure. Functions such as error messages being displayed when an incorrect operation occurs allows for information to be secured and helps to stop unauthorized access.


 Code Review link
 
 
# [Enhancement One: Software Design and Engineering :](https://github.com/jacobRudebeck/ArtifactOne) 
This artifact was for CS-330 Comp Graphic and Visualization. It was created in early August 2020. The artifact is an openGl project written in C++. This particular artifact is a 3 dimensional object (a chair) that shows up on the screen in a window. The program is ran and the screen shows the object (the chair) with the mouse cursor at the center of the screen so the user can move the camera around the object. The arrow keys can be used to zoom in and out on the object. The left and right arrow keys can be used to switch between perspective and orthographic views. This is useful as it shows the difference on screen between the two view options. Orthographic view “directly maps coordinates to the 2D plane of the screen” (De Vries, 2014). Perspective view “appears to mimic perspective such as when objects farther away appear to be smaller” (De Vries, 2014). The artifact Is a chair but has several components as each needed to be created individually. 
### Reasoning:
The reason I included this article into my ePortfolio was to show my ability and knowledge in software design and engineering. The components such as the actual physical properties of a chair took planning before I coded them into the openGl program I had created. Before I started on the chair creation, I took a piece of paper and drew the components of the chair and where their coordinates would be at in relation to each other. With some other programs, I could write the code and guess and check my work. This class allowed me to expand my knowledge when it came to designing and planning a program before creating the program. I improved this particular artifact by adding another light source, parts of the chair, and the camera movement. These additions allowed the program to have more features and show the ability of the different parts of the program to still work together. The case statements in the switch(key) section have breaks for good coding practices and allow each key to be selected to show the different view of the object as well as zooming in and out.
##### Course Outcomes:
I did meet the course objects for this artifact. This included several items as stated in the final project guidelines such as “generating accurate representations using the API for three dimensional objects”. As well as employing best practices for coding such as formatting and commenting. In the program the majority of lines have comments on them that describe what they do or how they affect other items. This allows the code to function correctly and allow for someone else to look at the code and have a better understanding of what the code does. I find this of importance because one of the first things I was told at the beginning of my computer science degree was the importance of commenting on code. This was for several reasons such as making sure someone else that may be working on or updating your application for years to come, understands what is going on. “Commenting is the “art” of describing how a program will function” (Germain, Commenting). Commenting as well as the structure of the code such as indentations and logic follows coding best practice an show my ability to implement those practices.
##### What I learned:	
The process of enhancing the artifact such as this one did take a bit of time compared to others. In this artifact it has 3 dimensional object that usually have six sides. In order to just put another bar on a chair the project needs to have six sides which each have four points each. These coordinates also need to line up with other coordinates on the object. Adding special keys was also challenging in the beginning as the code wouldn’t act as intended. Adding a case and break; for each arrow key allowed for each key to be pushed individually to add functionality to the camera. The arrow key left and right could be used to switch between perspective view and orthographic views. Up and down zoomed in an out on the object when the camera was centered. This challenge as well as setting up coordinates points took a while but did help me learn more about openGL functionality and how logic and code functions in the graphics side of computer programming.

  
  
# [Enhancement Two: Algorithms and Data Structure :](https://github.com/jacobRudebeck/ArtifactTwo)
This artifact was for cs-320 software test, automation, and QA and was created in May 2020. This artifact was a java medical record system. The main test plan required unit testing for the medical records system to ensure the program would work correctly. It also required several features to be added such as adding a user to log in, adding doctors with unique ID’s (names were not required to be unique), and adding a patient with patient information. The program also required a different section to add a medical record with treatments, medications, and allergies. When dealing with medical record a patient history would need to be created after the medical record was created. This patient history would contain at least 1 (or more) treatments, medications, and allergies. Medications would first require a treatment plan for the patient. The third feature of this artifact was an allergy find class. This would allow the user to use the system to search for allergies as well as printing all patients with allergies. The final part that was stated earlier was the unit tests. The J-unit tests would be used to test the functionality of the program. “The J-unit platform is used for launching testing frame works on JVM” (Bechtold et al., JUnit 5 User Guide).

### Reasoning: 
The reason I included this artifact in the ePortfolio was because it demonstrates knowledge of data structures and algorithms through the medical application as well as the ability to run J-unit testing. This framework allow for testing to be done to make sure the program is functioning correctly and can be used by testers to accurately find errors in the system if there are any. Each part of the individual program serves a purpose and many of the parts are connected. The specific components such as adding a patient or a doctor are crucial for the program to function. Adding a patient history also shows knowledge of the data structures which allow for the user to add all the patient information into the system and the ability to retrieve that information such as allergies when needed. The ability to create accurate J-unit tests that show the program is running correctly furthers that knowledge that the program is functioning correctly and that the tests were created correctly for each individual aspect. The program was updated by creating more J-unit tests for other classes. The program was also updated to allow the user to add a doctor correctly while requiring a unique ID but not a Unique name as there could be multiple doctors with the same name but unique IDs allow for the data to be unique. 

##### Course Outcomes:
I did meet the original course outcomes as many of the J-unit tests ran fully as well as the new features running correctly. I would like to update the program further eventually. This would possibly include more secure code such as limiting the characters for the user to log in and when creating a unique ID for a doctor. When creating a Unique ID or any data, the program should not allow for anything to be entered as that is bad coding practice. Limiting the amount of characters or integers can help keep data secure which would be important in a program such as medical records.
	
##### What I learned:
One thing I learned when updating the program was that creating J-unit tests for each individual part of a program makes finding errors easier. If for some reason the program wont load or doesn’t have functionality that it should have, a j-unit test can help to show that. I also learned just how important data structures are as they must be kept intact otherwise a program could quick working very easily if the data structure isn’t thought out. This includes the aspect of the program that requires a treatment for a patient before a medication can be assigned to them. Furthermore, a user shouldn’t be allowed to access data before logging in so a log in would be set up first before the user could access any other feature in the program. For example, a user could potentially enter any string into the password or other user input which could cause problems, especially if linked to a database. SQL injects are a large part of this and should be prevented for best coding practices. “SQL injections means inserting SQL code as queries into user inputs to potentially gain user information.” (SQL Injection in Java and How to Easily Prevent it 2020). Some of the challenges I faced was making sure the J-unit tests were working correctly for each feature after the program was updated. Another challenge was to make sure the data structure was set up so the items would appear in the order they are supposed to appear in as stated above with logging in and medication access.

 
 
  
  
# [Enhancement Three: Databases : ](https://github.com/jacobRudebeck/ArtifactThree/blob/main/finalTest.py)
This article is a Database query program that uses mongoDB noSQL database structure to find results of a query based on the input. It uses bottle for a server connection on the localhost in order to run the methods in the program and access the database. The program utilizes Json functionality methods dumps and loads to “provide explist BSON conversion to and from json”(json_util – Tools for using Python's json module with BSON documents). This particular database is a stock market with company information. The program allows for CRUD functions to manipulate the data in the company using queries. In other words the program can create a company, read/find company data, update company data, and delete company data. The program is also set to run a performance report using averages of multiple companies and showing the report. The program can also run a portfolio of a selected company using a query to retrieve and display that companies data. The program was created about 2 months ago in CS340, October 2020.

### Reasoning: 
The reason I included this artifact in my ePortfolio was because it shows my knowledge I have learned from noSQL database management. Although I was originally going to show my SQL databases such as SELECT * FROM whateverDatabase but I found mongoDB to be slightly more challenging but better in several ways. As stated in mongo DB the definitive guide text book mongoDB “is a document-oriented database not a relational one” as well as “replacing row with flexible model “document” ”( Chodorow 3). This is a move from the traditional databases but it can be better. MongoDB allows for an easier ability to scale out. Rather than using rows of data, mongoDB can use full documents and queries to access that data. This is shown in my aggregation pipeline methods to getReport and creating a company portfolio based on the company profile. MongoDB also has additional feature such as “indexing, aggregation, special collection types, and better file storage ability” (Chodorow 4). The specific components that showcased my skill was the aggregate pipeline with collection using query. Although using the crud functions were originally difficult to create, the routes to get the correct data took a little longer. The artifact was improved with these query functions such as one that displays average performance with five companies. Another reason I chose to incorporate mongoDB into my ePortfolio is because of its functionality. It has many important aspects when it comes to manipulating data but from a developer prospective the ability to work across multiple languages is great. “Several versions of MongoDB have driver support for python, Node.js, C++ as well as others” (MongoDB).
I met the enhancements I originally wanted to with this project. If I have time one update I would like to make to the outcome would be some sort of menu. I created one in the other functions I had but if I could incorporate that into this project it would make usability a little easier. That way I could potentially have queries already set up and the menu would prompt for a selection, enter option, and run, see data and done.

###### Challenges:
Some of the challenges I faced modifying this artifact was that sometimes data doesn’t do what you want it to do. Also if you are entering a query to run and you accidently type in “|” at the wrong point in the terminal it doesn’t run and then you have to find where you messed up at. Making sure the data output was in a nice, easy to read format was important as well.














Thank you for taking the time to view my work in my eportfolio. I hope to expand my knowledge and gain experience in the computer science field as I begin my career and help develop projects that make the world a better place.
